在这次讨论中，我最感兴趣的话题是“什么是云计算”，因为在如今这个大数据时代，云计算越来越发挥着重要的作用，了解云计算的工作原理和基本常识是我们软件专业学生必备的知识。在听到了某一小组的报告之后，我对于云计算有了大体上的认识；而我们小组所讨论的主题是有关于“网格计算”。我发现“网格计算”与“云计算”有以下不同：
1.概念不同：云计算是一种宽泛的概念，它允许用户通过互联网访问各种基于IT资源的服务，这种服务允许用户无需了解底层IT基础设施架构就能够享受到作为服务的“IT相关资源”。网格的内涵包括两个方面，一个方面是所谓的效用计算或者随需计算，在这一点上面，网格计算跟云计算是非常相似的，都是通过一个资源池或者分布式的计算资源来提供在线的计算或者存储等服务；另外一个方面就是所谓的“虚拟超级计算机”，以松耦合的方式将大量的计算资源连接在一起提供单个计算资源所无法完成的超级计算能力，这也是狭义上的网格计算跟云计算概念上最大的差别。
2.目标不同：网格的构建大多为完成某一个特定的任务需要，这也是会有生物网格、地理网格、国家教育网格等各种不同的网格项目出现的原因。而云计算一般来说都是为了通用应用而设计的，没有专门的以某种应用命名的网格。
3.资源分配方式不同：网格计算的思路是聚合分布资源，支持虚拟组织，提供高层次的服务，例如分布协同科学研究等。而云计算的资源相对集中，主要以数据中心的形式提供底层资源的使用，并不强调虚拟组织（VO）的概念。


In this discussion, the topic I am most interested in is "what is cloud computing", because in this era of big data, cloud computing is playing an increasingly important role, thus understanding the working principle and basic knowledge of cloud computing is a necessary knowledge for us software students.After hearing a panel report, I had a general understanding of cloud computing;The topic of our group discussion is about "grid computing".I see the following differences between "grid computing" and "cloud computing" :
1. Different concepts: cloud computing is a broad concept that allows users to access a variety of IT resource-based services over the Internet, which allow users to enjoy "IT related resources" as services without any knowledge of the underlying IT infrastructure architecture.The connotation of grid includes two aspects. One is the so-called utility computing or on-demand computing. At this point, grid computing is very similar to cloud computing.Another aspect is the so-called "virtual supercomputer", which loosely coupled a large number of computing resources together to provide supercomputing power that a single computing resource could not. This is the biggest difference between grid computing in a narrow sense and cloud computing in concept.
2. Different goals: most of the grid construction is required to complete a specific task, which is also the reason for the emergence of various grid projects such as biological grid, geographical grid, and national education grid.Cloud computing, on the other hand, is generally designed for general use, with no specific grid named after an application.
3. Different ways of resource allocation: the idea of grid computing is to aggregate distributed resources, support virtual organizations, and provide high-level services, such as distributed collaborative scientific research.On the other hand, cloud computing resources are relatively concentrated, mainly providing the use of underlying resources in the form of data centers, and does not emphasize the concept of virtual organization (VO).
If there is any mistake in my understanding, please correct it in time.